# Thai Travel Thailand (TTT) Data Analysis
Thai Travel Thailand (TTT; fictional organization) has released an app to track the
locations of its users (with permission) for the purpose of domestic travel promotion.
As one of the coolest data consulting companies, we are hired to analyze the data.
Given the input files, our first task is to transform individual user locations into trips
defined as follows.


## Table of Contents

- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Notebooks](#notebooks)
  - [Data Preprocessing](#data-preprocessing)
  - [User Trips Analysis](#user-trips-analysis)
- [Environment Setup](#environment-setup)
- [How to Run the Code](#how-to-run-the-code)
- [Removing the Environment](#removing-the-environment)

## Project Structure

The project structure is organized as follows:

```bash
├── data_preprocessing.ipynb
├── user_trips_analysis.ipynb
├── chalothorn_ttt_answer.pdf
├── environment.yml
├── README.md
└── data
    ├── raw
    ├   ├── user.csv
    ├   └── transaction.csv
    ├── process
    ├   ├── cleaned_user.csv
    ├   └── cleaned_transaction.csv
    └── output
        └── output.csv
```

The `data` folder contains the project's data, with the `raw` folder storing the original data, the `process` folder containing preprocessed data generated by the `data_preprocessing.ipynb` notebook, and the `output` folder holding the results from the `user_trips_analysis.ipynb` notebook.

## Notebooks

### Data Preprocessing

The `data_preprocessing.ipynb` notebook is designed for inspecting and preprocessing raw data. It must be run first to generate clean user and transaction CSV data.

### User Trips Analysis

The `user_trips_analysis.ipynb` notebook extracts trip data for each user from the cleaned data in the `process` folder. The notebook also answers specific questions related to the analysis.


## Environment Setup

The `environment.yml` file is an Anaconda environment file that allows you to recreate the same environment locally.


## How to Run the Code

1. Clone the repository.
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ChalothornYn/ttt-data-analysis.git
   ```
2. Install [Anaconda](https://docs.anaconda.com/free/anaconda/install/index.html). If you prefer not to install Anaconda, you can use Colab or your own environment with Python and the Pandas library installed.
3. Open Anaconda prompt and change the directory to where you cloned the repository.
4. Set up the environment using the `environment.yml` file with the command:
   ```bash
   conda env create -f environment.yml --name [myenv]
   ```
   Replace `[myenv]` with your preferred environment name.
6. Activate the environment with the command:
   ```bash
   conda activate [env_name]
   ```
7. Type `jupyter lab` in the Anaconda prompt to start Jupyter Lab.
   ```bash
   jupyter lab
   ```
8. You can now explore the code.


## Removing the Environment
To remove the environment, use the following command in the Anaconda prompt:
 ```bash
   conda env remove --name [myenv]
 ```
Replace `[myenv]` with your preferred environment name.
